
Divers must be at least 16 when a dive occurs 
and have an open-water certication from one of: NAUI, CMAS, or PADI. 

One diver, the lead, books a dive, possibly to include other qualied divers, up to the
limit the monitor is willing to take, and taking into account the number the dive site has capacity for at
that date and time.

Each monitor has their own price list, according to whether a dive will be morning (9:30 to 11 a.m.),
afternoon (12:30 to 2 p.m.) or night (8:30 to 10 p.m.), and whether the dive will be open water, cave diving,
or deeper than 30 meters. 

The price charged by a monitor includes any fees a dive site charges per diver,
and a monitor may have booking privileges with one or more dive sites. Monitors also have a maximum
group size for each category: open water, cave, or deeper than 30 meters, and they set the maximum to 0 if
they do not supervise that category of dive.

All dive sites provide 12 litre aluminum tanks, weight belts and bouyancy compensation vests as part
of their fee. Some also provide mask, regulator, ns, and wrist-mounted dive computer, each for additional
fees. In addition some sites provide free services from among: video of dives, snacks, hot showers, towel
service. Each site lists a maximum number of divers, combining one or more bookings, allowed on site at
any daylight hour, and lists smaller maxima for night, cave, or deeper than 30 meter dives. Each site lists
one or more dive types they provide from: open water, cave dive, or beyond 30 meters.
A lead diver may book as many dives as they can nd monitors and dive sites for, but only one dive at
a given date and time. No monitor is allowed to book more than two dives per 24 hour period, in order to
keep their blood nitrogen at safe levels. The lead diver provides credit card information, email addresses
and dive certication for all divers, and credit card information to secure the dive(s).
All divers may, optionally, rate a site on a scale of 0 (very poor) to 5 (excellent), and lead divers may
rate monitors on the same scale